Update Firmware flashing page (#418)
betaflight/betaflight.com: docs/wiki/configurator/firmware-flasher-tab.md

# Firmware Flasher Tab

This tab is used to update the flight controller's Firmware.

> Since Betaflight 4.4, firmware updating is by an online build process. The user selects their flight controller, the code version to flash, and enables the features they want, then a custom firmware will be built online, downloaded, and installed onto the flight controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Betaflight 4.4, updating the firmware is done via an online building process. The user selects their flight controller, the code version to flash, and enables the features they want, then a custom firmware will be built online, downloaded, and installed onto the flight controller.
```

Author: Done, thanks!

Reviewer: Either my browser is not updating or it has not been committed :)

### Local Flashing

If you have a local build environment and can make hex files, or you just have a hex file to flash, it can be flashed directly.

For 4.4 and 4.5, the hex file must be custom-built or pre-built with all the hardware options already included. There is no need to choose a board in the drop-down, or set any options, because all the required defaults and options exists in the custom hex file. Note that the configuration file only contains the default configuration values; the user will have to check and update the settings before flying.

Hovering your mouse over 'Loaded Online Firmware' in the Flashing Tab, before actually flashing the code, allows downloading the firmware hex file to your computer for local flashing later on, if needed.

Previously an MPU-specific hex file was used, and the user had to ensure that the board was selected, so that the board-specific hardware details would be flashed after the hex.

To flash local development firmware with optional custom configuration use the <b>Load Firmware local</b> button to load board configuration or click `Auto-detect` or when in `DFU` mode select a board manually.

:::note

> If, when flashing older MPU-generic firmware, and if you have a local configuration file, load it first, then use the same button again to load the local hex file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, when flashing older MCU-generic firmware, and if you have a local configuration file, load it first, then use the same button again to load the local hex file.
```

Author: Done, thanks

| RACE PRO                  | see [Betaflight 4.5 Release notes](/docs/wiki/release/betaflight-4-5-release-notes#161-race-pro-build-option)                                                                          |
| Servos                    | Enable Servo support                                                                                                                                                                   |
| VTX                       | Enable VTX                                                                                                                                                                             |

### Motor Protocol

Select the Motor control (ESC) protocol to use. DShot is default.

### Custom Defines

This field is only available in expert mode, and is intended for development and testing.

It allows the user to enter the coded 'name' for a 'hardware define', forcing that code to be included in the build. More than one define can be included, separated by spaces.

For example, the local build options `-DUSE_RANGEFINDER -DUSE_ACCGYRO_LSM6DSO` can be included as Custom Defines when making a cloud build with `RANGEFINDER ACCGYRO_LSM6DSO`.

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://betaflight.com/docs/development/API/Cloud-Build-API#custom-defines). Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.
```

| Cam. Control              | Enable Camera Control                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Dashboard                 | Enable external i2c Oled Display device (to be deprecated)                                                                                                                             |
| EMFAT (AutoRun, Icon)     | Enable FAT emulation and icon for onboard flash or MSC                                                                                                                                 |
| ESC Serial (SK) Inc. 4way | Enable SimonK and ESC Serial support for flashing via 4way interface                                                                                                                   |
| Flash Storage             | 4.4 and earlier only. Enables Blackbox Flash Storage support. In 4.5, is auto-included via the FC config file. To manually add Flash to a 4.5 build, enter `FLASH` in `Custom Defines` |

> | FrSky OSD                 | 4.4 and earlier only. For 4.5, enter `FRSKYOSD` in `Custom Defines`                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: FrSky OSD is available in Other Options.

Author: Thank you - for some odd reason I thought it wasn't.  Fixed.

| Dashboard                 | Enable external i2c Oled Display device (to be deprecated)                                                    |
| EMFAT (AutoRun, Icon)     | Enable FAT emulation and icon for onboard flash or MSC                                                        |
| ESC Serial (SK) Inc. 4way | Enable SimonK and ESC Serial support for flashing via 4way interface                                          |
| Flash Storage             | Auto-included in 4.5, enables Blackbox Flash Storage before 4.5                                               |

> | FrSky OSD                 | Auto-included in 4.5, enables FrSky OSD support before 4.5                                                    |

Reviewer: -  `Flash Storage` aka `USE_FLASH` - is not automatically included - only if provided by the config.
- `FRSKYOSD` - needs to be included using Other Options

Author: What I'm saying is the option `Flash Storage` no longer shows up under `Other Options`.  It simply doesn't exist.  So I propose:
`Flash Storage - 4.4 and earlier only.  Enables Blackbox Flash Storage support.  In 4.5, is normally auto-included via the FC config file.  To manually add Flash to a 4.5 build, enter `FLASH` in Custom Defines.`
Likewise for FrSkyOSD:
`4.4 and earlier only. For 4.5, enter `FRSKYOSD` in `Custom Defines``

For example, the local build options `-DUSE_RANGEFINDER -DUSE_ACCGYRO_LSM6DSO` can be included as Custom Defines when making a cloud build with `RANGEFINDER ACCGYRO_LSM6DSO`.

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Author: @nerdCopter I updated the image.
Maybe you could put the list into betaflight.com/docs/development?
That would be awesome.
If it was a table, we could add info about each option (whether it's actively updated, safe to use, what it does, deprecated, etc.
Then I can link to that page?

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Reviewer: Should use this link: https://betaflight.com/docs/development/API/Cloud-Build-API#custom-defines

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Reviewer: Will go through updating custom and maybe other defines on that page if needed asap.

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Reviewer 2: @ctzsnooze , for now remove this paragraph and link to aforementioned doc instead.  
paragraph wrongly said `2025` anyway.

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/betaflight/betaflight.com/pull/419

> This is a full listing of [Custom Defines](https://hackmd.io/@nerdCopter/H11rvS8Lh), current as of early 2025. Most hardware defines are already included in the board config. Some relate to archaic code that may not function properly and is not currently included in normal builds; test these at your own risk.

Author: updated the link to the defines.md file  in the cloud-build-api document
